# Introduction
For the past 2 years, I have actively participated in particle phyiscs, nuclear physics, and positron emission tomography research, all with a focus on detector design, development, and optimization. Detector R\&D employs a surprisingly rich variety of fields including engineering, solid-state physics, chemistry, and of course particle/nuclear physics making it a truly versatile niche in physics research. 
I have come to believe this field forms a perfect balance between computational research, hardware design, hands-on experimentation, and data analysis and now hope to continue push the capabilities of radiation detection along many energy frontiers for the rest of my career. Specifically, my interests are in the searches for exotic particles and decays (both acclerator and non-accelerator based), beam diagnostics and dynamics, and medical imaging. 

# Firas Abouzahr's Collective Repository 
This is a collective repository and documentation/presentation hub spanning all of my research at the University of Texas in Dr. Karol Lang's high energy physics research group of which I can publicly share. I actively conduct research over a variety of projects and collaborations listed below with quick introductions to the experiments themselves and my/my group's role in them. 

# LEGEND-1000 
LEGEND-1000 (Large Enriched Germanium Experiment for Neutrinoless Double Beta Decay) is a proposed successor to the LEGEND-200, GERDA, and MAJORANA DEMONSTRATOR experiments. LEGEND-1000's goal to observe the theoretical process of neutrinoless double beta decay which will unlock physics beyond the standard model such as the majorana-nature of neutrinos and consequentially the violation of lepton number conservation. LEGEND is expected to lead the world in a variety of experimental parameters that will give it an exceptional chance to find the standard model violating decay. One of these parameters is background supression, an extremely important ability for all neutrinoless double beta decay and dark matter experiments. One of the ways by which LEGEND-1000 will reject background noise is via the collective appartus known as the LAr Veto System. The LAr Veto system consists of a curtain of TPB-coated optical fibers surrounding the main germanium detector strings. The purpose of this system is to detect background radiation originating outside of the germainum detectors that is deposited within the surrounding liquid argon. Our group is currently working on a revised model of the LAr model that will consist of EJ-280 (a WLS material) plates rather than the current model of fibers. Geant4 simulations have shown that the plate model has improved photodetection efficiency than the fiber model and hence could have the potential to be a better background tagger. Besides for simulations, our group is striding forward with experimental verification as well. If experiment can replicate our simulations, we will propose this plate-based LAr Veto Systsem. As of now my role in our research has include: 

* Geant4 simulations to study the wavelength shifting, photon transport, and overall photodetection efficiency of EJ-280 plates.
* Dark box experiments to characterize wavelength shifting materials, optic fibers, and photodetectors relevant to our R\&D of the plate-based veto system using various radiation sources and an electron gun. 

# NuMI Beamline
Our group has had an active role in various experiments at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (Fermilab) long past my tenure. One of our active involvements at Fermilab is with the NuMI (Neutrinos at the Main Injector) beamline, a neutrino beam used by the NoVA collaboration to study oscillations of muon neutrinos into electron neutrinos. While our group is actively conducting research for the NOvA experiment itself, our group also an important role in the beamline diagnostics as well. Our group has designed, constructed, tested, and commissioned 2 types of beamline detectors used in the NuMI beamline: the hadron monitors and the muon monitors. The former detector, the hadron monitor, has been a large focus of my research since I first joined Dr. Lang's physics group. The hadron monitor is a helium-based ionization chamber used to detect the secondary hadron beam formed after the main proton beam collides into its graphite target. The collision produces a beam of pions and kaons (dependent on magnetic horn current) that eventually decay into muon neutrinos and muons. The major purpose of the hadron monitor is to monitor these hadrons before they decay in order to ensure proper beam alignment (AKA aim) as well as flux. I acted as the lead student (undergraduate or graduate) in the commission of the third generation hadron monitors and have recently begun to do beamline analysis of one of these third generation monitors that is currently active in the NuMI beam. My roles include:

* Construction and commissioning of the third generation of hadron monitors. This included working closely with our group's research engineer to connect all detector components such as the capacitor plates making up each ionization pixel, rad-hard cables for voltage input and signal read-out, and gas-sealing. 
* Electrical testing of all components to ensure proper connections, leak testing to ensure air-tightness, and source testsing with a 1000 mCi neutron/gamma source (Am-Be) to ensure proper functionality before the detectors were sent to Fermilab. 
* Currently, I am now involved in analysis hadron monitor data from the NuMI beamline in conjunction with other beamline components (e.g., beam position  intensity data) in order to see if we can expand the usage of tge hadron monitors for more diagnostics than just beam alignment. 

# Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and Time-of-Flight PET for Proton Therapy (TPPT)
Besides high-energy physics, my group is also interested in the design and optimization of PET scanners used in variety of different medical settings. We conduct research both on the scale of pure group research as well as in an international collaboration, TPPT. Within our group's research, we focus on the development of novel PET scanners and analysis techniques to improve scanner parameters (e.g., energy, timing, and Depth-of-Interaction resolutions) and hence imaging capabilities. We conduct this research via Geant4 simulations and experimental research using our in-laboratory miniature PET scanner. The motivation beheind the TPPT is to use a specialized PET scanner to allow for live imaging of patients during proton cancer therapy. Our group has led the collaboration in designing, commissioning, and testing the TPPT scanner this includes components past just the detectors such as cooling and calibration systems. Personally, I have and still actively contribute to our PET research via:

* Design and study of total body PET scanners via Geant4 simulation. My research spans checking the viability of different types of scintillators for total body scanners, design and simulation of various potential total body geometries, and analsysis of resultant data. This will be the topic of my senior thesis. 
* Design, study, and commissioning of the TPPT PET scanner cooling system. 
* Commission and software design for a motor used to move radiation sources across the TPPT scanner for detector calibration.
* Analysis of experimental data for both our miniature PET scanner and the TPPT PET scanner. 
